Components were the revolutionary concept in the world of web development right from when the day they were popularized by React and similar libraries. Its is basically a design pattern which changed the way we used to think about web dev in general. Something similar is happening after 10 years with the advent of Server Components.

What Components are is very simple they are isolated and independent piece of logic responsible for only a chunk of behavior in the web app. They are primarily defined as the function of state f(state) viz as state changes the rendered content will update to show the right view to the user.
Now, primarily these components are client components which means that these components will execute on the client which is on the user devices be it mobile, tablets or desktops. But this doesn't mean that they can only be executed on client side which is the case with Server Side Rendering where the same client component is first executed on the server for the initial render and then send back to client again for hydration.

So understand Client doesn't imply that it will only work on Client.
Client component are associated with two line of thoughts, CSR and SSR. 

CSR means everything from execution to parsing to rendering will happen only on the client devices, any request for data will be made using the network requests to the server either optimistically or lazily trying to reduce the network waterfall as much as possible. In CSR, we are heavily relying on the capabilities of the devices along with the network latency working in our favor and the worst part is that we loose the visibility of our site to the web crawlers essential for SEO ranking.

To overcome this, SSR was introduces where the page (component) is first ran on the server to render the first view presented to the user and then hydrated again to add interactivity. This improves the SEO and the time for initial load to user but relies heavily on the server capabilities. Be mindful that here the component being used are still the same which were used on the client. 

Key part being there's no distinction when moving from client to server, one can use the same components. In SSR, these same component add up to the network payload while being transferred from server to client, plus they are not really "SERVER" components as they cannot do specific server based stuff like reading securely from databases, file IO, etc. without exposing the sensitive data. Doing stuff like accessing database directly to read a piece of data on the server itself and then just outputting the desired result will help reduce the overall number of requests required to present the view. Server components do exactly the same, connect to database, access server specific functionality, prepare the view and then stream the output directly to the client.

In this way, Server components introduce a new paradigm shift as they can only render once on the server and only on server and never re-render, so the rendered value is locked in place and streamed to the client. The best part with SC is that the reduce the bundle size required to be sent over the network as any library used in the Server component will be executed, trimmed to be only have the functionality required in the desired output and hence the bundle will only include the necessary JavaScript which was never the case with client components.

So now you have basically 2 separate islands of components - Client and Server. How they interact is another mind bending piece of puzzle because React is hell bent on supporting both the paradigms for obvious and right reasons and the framework that allows you try this exciting feature is Next. The future looks promising even though some might think we are reinventing the wheel which PHP did way earlier but this is a short sighted opinion as we are missing on the thing these new paradigms are introducing as they go along. In forthcoming years, we will be able to make use of both the Client and Server component to structure our web apps clearly defining their scope and role with improved performance gains and less bundle footprint. 

Meet you next time for understanding how Client and Server components interact together. Till then, Happy Coding!